[adding] jwt in depth guide (#224)
nats-io/nats.docs: developing-with-nats/tutorials/jwt.md

> # JWT in NATS - Deep Dive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# JWTs in NATS - Deep Dive
```

> This document provides a step by step deep dive into JWT. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides a step by step deep dive into JWT usage within NATS. 
```

Starting with related concepts it will introduce JWT and how the can be used in NATS.
This will NOT list every JWT/nsc option. Instead it focuses on important ones and concepts.

- [Concepts](#concepts)
  - [What are Accounts?](#what-are-accounts)
    - [Key Takeaways](#key-takeaways)
  - [What are NKEYs?](#what-are-nkeys)
    - [Key Takeaways](#key-takeaways-1)
- [JSON Web Tokens (JWT)](#json-web-tokens-jwt)
  - [Motivation for JWT](#motivation-for-jwt)
    - [Key Takeaways](#key-takeaways-2)
  - [Decentralized Authentication/Authorization using JWT](#decentralized-authenticationauthorization-using-jwt)
    - [Key Takeaways](#key-takeaways-3)
  - [Hierarchical JWT](#hierarchical-jwt)
    - [Decentralized Chain of Trust](#decentralized-chain-of-trust)
      - [Obtain an Account JWT](#obtain-an-account-jwt)

>       - [JWT and Chain of Trust Verification](#jwt-and-chain-of-trust-verification)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - [JWTs and Chain of Trust Verification](#jwt-and-chain-of-trust-verification)
```

* nsc (cli): https://github.com/nats-io/nsc
* jwt (library): https://github.com/nats-io/jwt 

## Concepts

### What are Accounts?

Accounts are the NATS isolation context. 

```text 
accounts: {
    A: {
        users: [{user: a, password: a}]
    },
    B: {
        users: [{user: b, password: b}]
    },
}
``` 

Messages published in one account won't be received in another.

```text
> nats -s nats://a:a@localhost:4222 sub ">" &
[1] 28199
17:56:40 Subscribing on >
> nats -s nats://b:b@localhost:4222 pub "foo" "user b"
17:56:56 Published 6 bytes to "foo"
> nats -s nats://a:a@localhost:4222 pub "foo" "user a"
17:57:06 [#1] Received on "foo"
user a

17:57:06 Published 6 bytes to "foo"
>
```

As indicated by the absence of a `Received on` print, the above example shows no message flow between user `a` associated with account `A` and user `b` in account `B`. Messages are delivered only within the same account. That is, unless you explicitly define it.

```text
accounts: {
    A: {
        users: [{user: a, password: a}]
        imports: [{stream: {account: B, subject: "foo"}}]
    },
    B: {
        users: [{user: b, password: b}]
        exports: [{stream: "foo"}] 
    },
}
```

> Same example, this time with messages crossing explicit account boundaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a similar example, this time with messages crossing explicit account boundaries.
```

```text
> nats -s nats://a:a@localhost:4222 sub ">" &
[1] 28552
18:28:18 Subscribing on >
> nats -s nats://b:b@localhost:4222 pub "foo" "user b"
18:28:25 [#1] Received on "foo"
user b

18:28:25 Published 6 bytes to "foo"
> nats -s nats://a:a@localhost:4222 pub "foo" "user a"
18:28:30 [#2] Received on "foo"
user a

18:28:30 Published 6 bytes to "foo"
>
```

Accounts are a lot more powerful than what has been demonstrated here. 
For a complete documentation of look at [accounts](https://docs.nats.io/nats-server/configuration/securing_nats/accounts) and the [users](https://docs.nats.io/nats-server/configuration/securing_nats/auth_intro) associated with them.
All of this is in a plain nats config file. (Copy the above config and try it using this command: `nats-server -c <filename>`)
In order to make any changes, every participating nats-server config file in the same security domain has to change.
This configuration is typically controlled by one organization or the administrator.

#### Key Takeaways

> * accounts are isolated from each other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Accounts are isolated from each other
```

> * ability to selectively combine accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* One can selectively combine accounts
```

* Need to modify a config file to add/remove/modify accounts and user

### What are NKEYs?

NKEYs are decorated, Base32 encoded, CRC16 check-summed, [Ed25519](https://ed25519.cr.yp.to/) keys.

Ed25519 is:
* a public key signature system. (can sign and verify signatures)
* resistant to side channel attacks (no conditional jumps in algorithm)

> Nats server can be configured with public NKEYs as user (identities).

Reviewer 2: NATS server or nats-server

Author: fixed

    "protocol": 1,
    "sig": "lopzgs98JBQYyRdw1zT_BoBpSFRDCfTvT4le5MYSKrt0IqGWZ2OXhPW1J_zo2_sBod8XaWgQc9oWohWBN0NdDg",
    "tls_required": false,
    "verbose": false,
    "version": "1.11.0"
}]
```

On connect, clients are instantly sent the nonce to sign as part of the `INFO` message (formatting added manually). 
Since `telnet` will not authenticate, the server closes the connection after hitting the [authorization](https://docs.nats.io/nats-server/configuration/securing_nats/auth_intro#authorization-map) timeout.

```text
> telnet localhost 4222
Trying ::1...
Connected to localhost.
Escape character is '^]'.
INFO {
    "auth_required": true,
    "client_id": 3,
    "client_ip": "::1",
    "go": "go1.14.1",
    "headers": true,
    "host": "0.0.0.0",
    "max_payload": 1048576,
    "nonce": "-QPTE1Jsk8kI3rE",
    "port": 4222,
    "proto": 1,
    "server_id": "NBSHIXACRHUODC4FY2Z3OYXSZSRUBRH6VWIKQNGVPKOTA7H4YTXWJRTO",
    "server_name": "NBSHIXACRHUODC4FY2Z3OYXSZSRUBRH6VWIKQNGVPKOTA7H4YTXWJRTO",
    "version": "2.2.0-beta.26"
}
-ERR 'Authentication Timeout'
Connection closed by foreign host.
```

#### Key Takeaways

* NKEYS are a secure way to authenticate clients

> * Secret private key is never exchanged, only evidence of possession is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Private keys are never accessed or stored in the NATS server
```

> * Private keys are never accessed or stored in the NATS server

Reviewer 2: "by"

Author: fixed

* The public key still needs to be configured

## JSON Web Tokens (JWT) 

### Motivation for JWT

> In a large organization the centralized config approach can lead to less flexibility/resistance to change when controlled by one entity.

Reviewer 2: configuration

Author: fixed

Alternatively, instead of operating one infrastructure, it can be deployed more often (say per team) thus making import/export relationships harder as they have to bridge separate systems.

> In order to make accounts truly powerful, they should ideally be configured separately from the infrastructure, only constraint by limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to make accounts truly powerful, they should ideally be configured separately from the infrastructure, only constrained by limits.
```

> Similar for user. An account contains user but this relationship could be a reference as well, such that alterations to user do not alter the account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is similar for user. An account contains the user but this relationship could be a reference as well, such that alterations to user do not alter the account. 
```

User of the same account should be able to connect from anywhere in the same infrastructure and be able to exchange messages as long as they are in the same authentication domain.

#### Key Takeaways

> * Break up config into separate artifacts manageable by different entities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configuration is broken up into separate artifacts manageable by different entities
```

> * Separate accounts from config and user from accounts

Reviewer: Management of Accounts, Configuration, and Users are separated.

Author: Add that as separate bullet point?

Reviewer: Or could replace, up to you...

Author: replaced

> * Break up config into separate artifacts manageable by different entities

Reviewer 2: "JWT breaks a nats-server configuration into separate...."

Author: fixed

* Accounts do NOT correspond to infrastructure, they correspond to teams or applications. 
* Connect to any cluster in the same infrastructure and be able to communicate with all other user in your account.
* Infrastructure and its topology have nothing to do with Accounts and where an Account's User connect from.

### Decentralized Authentication/Authorization using JWT

Account and User creation managed as separate artifacts in a decentralized fashion using NKEYs.
Relying on a hierarchial chain of trust between three distinct NKEYs and associated roles:

1. Operator: corresponds to operator of a set of nats-server in the same authentication domain (entire topology, crossing gateways and leaf nodes) 
2. Account: corresponds to the set of a single account's configuration
3. User: corresponds to one user's configuration

> Each of the NKEY is referenced together with additional configuration in a JWT document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each NKEY is referenced, with additional configuration in a JWT document.
```

> Each JWT has a subject and it's value is the public portion of an NKEY and serves as identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each JWT has a subject field and its value is the public portion of an NKEY and serves as identity.
```

Names exist in JWT but as of now are only used by tooling, `nats-server` does not read this value.
The referenced NKEY's role determines the JWT content.

> 1. Operator JWT: Contain server [config](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt/blob/e11ce317263cef69619fc1ca743b195d02aa1d8a/operator_claims.go#L28) applicable throughout all operated nats-server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Operator JWTs contain server [configuration](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt/blob/e11ce317263cef69619fc1ca743b195d02aa1d8a/operator_claims.go#L28) applicable throughout all operated NATS servers
```

> 2. Account JWT: Contain Account specific [configuration](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt/blob/e11ce317263cef69619fc1ca743b195d02aa1d8a/account_claims.go#L57) such as Exports/Imports/Limits/Default User Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Account JWTs contain Account specific [configuration](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt/blob/e11ce317263cef69619fc1ca743b195d02aa1d8a/account_claims.go#L57) such as exports, imports, limits, and default user permissions
```

> 3. User JWT: Contain User specific [configuration](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt/blob/e11ce317263cef69619fc1ca743b195d02aa1d8a/user_claims.go#L25) such as Permissions/Limits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. User JWTs contain user specific [configuration](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt/blob/e11ce317263cef69619fc1ca743b195d02aa1d8a/user_claims.go#L25) such as permissions and limits
```

> In addition, JWT can contain settings related to their decentralized nature, such as expiration/revocation/signing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, JWTs can contain settings related to their decentralized nature, such as expiration/revocation/signing.
```

> At no point do JWT contain the private portion of an NKEY, only signatures that can be verified with public NKEY.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At no point will a JWT contain the private portion of an NKEY.  Signatures are verified with public NKEY.
```

> At no point do JWT contain the private portion of an NKEY, only signatures that can be verified with public NKEY.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At no point do JWTs contain the private portion of an NKEY, only signatures that can be verified with public NKEY.
```

Author: fixed

> JWT content can be viewed as public, although it's content may reveal which subjects/limits/permissions exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWT content can be viewed as public, although the content may reveal which subjects/limits/permissions exist.
```

#### Key Takeaways

> * JWT are hierarchically organized in operator, account and user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JWTs are hierarchically organized in operator, account and user.
```

> * Carry corresponding configuration and config dedicated to decentralized nature of JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Carry corresponding configuration and config dedicated to decentralized nature of NATS JWT usage
```

> ### Hierarchical JWT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### NATS JWT Hierarchy
```

#### Decentralized Chain of Trust

A `nats-server` is configured to trust an operator. 
Meaning, the Operator JWT is part of its server configuration and requires a restart or `nats-server --signal reload` once changed.
It is also configured with a way to obtain account JWT in one of 3 ways (explained below).

> Clients provide user JWT on connect. Again the server or Account JWT is not configured with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients provide a user JWT on connect. Again the server or Account JWT is not configured with them.
```

> They also posses the private NKEY corresponding the the JWT identity so they can proof their identity as described [above](#what-are-nkeys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They also possess the private NKEY corresponding the the JWT identity so they can proof their identity as described [above](#what-are-nkeys).
```

    * The [`nats-account-server`](https://docs.nats.io/nats-tools/nas) is such a webserver. When set up correctly will inform `nats-server` of Account JWT changes.
  * Depending on configuration, requires read and/or write access to persistent storage.
* `nats-resolver`: Same as `url-resolver`, just uses nats instead of http
  * No separate binary to run/config/monitor.
  * Easier clustering when compared to `nats-account-server`. Will eventually converge on the union of all account JWT known to every participating `nats-server`.
  * Requires persistent storage in form of a NON-NTFS directory for `nats-server` to exclusively write into.
  * Optionally, directly supports Account JWT removal.
  * Between this and `url-resolver`, the `nats-resolver` is the clear recommendation

If your setup has few Accounts and User and/or you are comfortable reloading server configs when accounts/user change.
Then safe yourself the complexity and do not use JWT. Regular config - possibly with NKEYs - will work just fine for you.

##### JWT and Chain of Trust Verification

Each JWT document has a subject it represents. This is the public identity NKEY represented by the JWT document.

> JWT documents contain an issueAt time when it was signed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWT documents contain an `issueAt` time when it was signed. 
```

> JWT documents contain an `issueAt` time when it was signed. 

Reviewer 2: `issueAt` doesn't exist the jwt field is `iat`

Author: fixed

> This time is in seconds since Unix epoch. It is also used to determine which two JWT for the same subject is more recent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This time is in seconds since Unix epoch. It is also used to determine which two JWTs for the same subject is more recent.
```

Furthermore JWT documents have an issuer, this may be an (identity) NKEY or a dedicated signing NKEY above it in the trust hierarchy.
A key is a signing key if it is listed as such in the JWT (above). 
Signing NKEYs adhere to same NKEY roles and are additional keys that unlike identity NKEY may change over time.
In the hierarchy, signing keys can only be used to sign JWT for the role right below them. 

> User JWT have no signing keys for this reason.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User JWTs have no signing keys for this reason.
```

6. Server verifies downloaded JWT is an account JWT and if it is consistent: `sign(jwt.sig, jwt.issuer) == hash(jwt.header+jwt.body)` (issuer is part of body) 
7. Server verifies if account JWT issuer is in configured list of trusted operator keys (derived from operator JWT in configuration).
8. Server verifies that user JWT subject is not in the account's revoked list, or if jwt.issuedAt field has a higher value.
9. Server verifies that user JWT issuer is either identical to account JWT subject or part of account JWT signing keys.
10. If all of the above holds true, the above invocation will succeed, Only if the user JWT does not contain permissions or limits restricting the operation otherwise.
    ```text
    > nats -s localhost:4222 "--creds=user.creds" pub "foo" "hello world"
    16:56:02 Published 11 bytes to "foo"
    >
    ```text
11. Output if `user.creds` where to contain a JWT where the maximum message payload is limited to 5 bytes
    ```text
    > nats -s localhost:4222 "--creds=user.creds" pub "foo" "hello world"
    nats: error: nats: Maximum Payload Violation, try --help
    >
    ```

#### Key Takeaways

> * JWT are secure 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JWTs are secure 
```

> * JWT carry configuration corresponding to Operator/Accounts/User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JWTs carry configuration corresponding to Operator/Accounts/User
```

* Basis for operating one nats-infrastructure to serve separate yet optionally connected entities without introducing separate systems
* Account resolver are way to obtain unknown Account JWT
* On connect clients provide User JWT

> * JWT can be issued programmatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JWTs can be issued programmatically
```

    This can also be used by a single entity to not mix up nsc environments as well.
3. Self-service, decentralized config (shared dev cluster):
    Is similar to 2, but sets of users 2.i have access to an operator private signing NKEY.
    This allows teams to add/modify their own accounts.
    Since administrators give up control over limits, there needs to be an organizational mechanisms to prevent unchecked usage.
    Administrators operating the infrastructure can add/revoke access by controlling the set of operator signing keys. 
4. Mix of the above - as needed: separate sets of user (with multiple nsc environments).
    For some user/teams the Administrator operates everything.

Signing keys can not only be used by individuals in one or more `nsc` environments, but also by programs facilitating [JWT](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt) and [NKEY](https://github.com/nats-io/nkeys) libraries.
This allows the implementation of sign-up services.
* Account signing key enabled on the fly:
  *  user generation (explained later)
  *  export activation generation (explained later)
* Operator signing key enables on the fly account generation.

#### Key Takeaways

> * JWT and associated chain of trust allows for centralized/decentralized/self-service account configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JWTs and the associated chain of trust allows for centralized, decentralized, or self-service account configuration
```

* It is important to pick the deployment model that fits your needs, NOT the most complicated one.
* Distributing Operator/Account JWT NKEYs between Administrators and teams enable these deployment model
* Sign up services for Accounts/User can be implemented by programs in possession of signing keys

## Accounts Re-visited

> JWT feature accounts pretty heavily, thus a few thing need to be clarified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A deeper understanding of accounts will help you to best setup NATS JWT based security.
```

* What entity do accounts correspond to:
    Our official suggestion is to scope accounts by application/service offered.

>     This is very fine grain and will require some configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This is very fine grained and will require some configuration.
```

    This is why some users gravitate to accounts per team. One account for all Applications of a team.

>     It is possible to start out with less granular accounts and as applications grow in importance or scale become more fine grain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It is possible to start out with less granular accounts and as applications grow in importance or scale become more fine grained.
```

* Compared to file based config, Imports and Exports change slightly.
    To control who gets to import an export, activation tokens are introduced. 

>     These are JWT that an importer can embed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    These are JWTs that an importer can embed. 
```

    They comply to similar verification rules as user JWT, thus enabling a `nats-server` to check if the exporting account gave explicit consent. 
    Due to the use of a token the exporting account's JWT does not have to be modified.

> * Updates of JWT are applied as `nats-server` discover them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updates of JWTs are applied as `nats-server` discover them. 
```

  * How this is done depends on the resolver.

>     * `mem-resolver` require `nats-server --signal reload` to re-read all configured account JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `mem-resolver` require `nats-server --signal reload` to re-read all configured account JWTs.
```

      * `url-resolver` and `nats-resolver` listen on a dedicated update subject of the system account and applied if the file is valid.
    * `nats-resolver` will also also update the corresponding JWT file and compensate in case the update message was not received due to temporary disconnect.

>   * User JWT do only depend on the issuing Account NKEY only, they do NOT depend on a particular version of an Account JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * User JWTs do only depend on the issuing Account NKEY only, they do NOT depend on a particular version of an Account JWT.
```

  * Depending on the change, the internal Account representation will be updated and existing connections re-evaluated.
* The System Account is the account under which `nats-server` offer (administrative) services and monitoring events. (more detail later) 
  
### Key Takeaways

* Accounts can be arbitrarily scoped, from Application to Team
* Account Exports can be restricted by requiring use of activation tokens 
* Receiving a more recent Account JWT causes the nats-server to apply changes and re evaluate existing connections.

## Tooling And Key Management

This section will introduce `nsc` cli to generate and manage operator/accounts/user.
Even if you intend to primarily generate your Accounts/User programmatically, in all likelihood, you won't do so for an operator or all accounts.
Key Management and how to do so using `nsc` will also be part of this section.

### nsc

#### Environment

> `nsc` is a tool that uses [JWT](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt) and [NKEY](https://github.com/nats-io/nkeys) libraries to create NKEYs (if asked to) and all types of JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nsc` is a tool that uses the [JWT](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt) and [NKEY](https://github.com/nats-io/nkeys) libraries to create NKEYs (if asked to) and all types of JWT.
```

`nsc env` will show where NKEYS/JWT are stored and what current defaults are.
For testing you may want to switch between nsc environments:
Changing the (JWT) store directory: `nsc env --store <different folder>`
Changing the (NKEY) store directory by having an environment variable set: `export NKEYS_PATH=<different folder>`

Subsequent sections will refer to different environments in context of different [deployment modes](#deployment-models-enabled-by-chain-of-trust).
As such you can skip over all mentions for modes not of interest to you.
The mixed deployment mode is not mentioned and left as an exercise to the reader.

##### Backup

###### NKEYS store directory

Possessing NKEYS gives access to the system. 
Backups should therefore best be offline and access to them be severely restricted.
In cases where regenerating all/parts of the operator/accounts is not an option, signing keys must be used and identity NKEYS must be removed from the original store directory as to avoid them being leaked accidentally. 
Thus, depending on your scenario, relevant identity NKEYS need to only exist in very secure offline backup(s).

###### JWT store directory

> The store directory contains JWT fora operator/account/user and does not contain key material.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The store directory contains JWTs for operators, accounts, and users.  It does not contain private keys.
```

Therefore it is ok to back these up or even store them in a VCS such as git.
But be aware that depending on content, JWT may reveal which permissions/subjects/public-nkeys exist.

> Knowing the content of a JWT does not grant access, only holding the keys does.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knowing the content of a JWT does not grant access; only private keys will.
```

However, organization may not wish to make those public outright and thus has to make sure that these external systems are secured appropriately.

When restoring an older version, be aware that:
* All changes made since will be lost. Specifically revocations may be undone.

> * Time has moved on and thus JWT that used to be valid at the time of the backup/commit may be expired now. Thus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Time has moved on and thus JWTs that were once valid at the time of the backup or commit may be expired now. Thus
```

    You may have to be edit them to match your expectations again.
* NKEYS are stored in a separate directory, so to not restore a JWT for which the NKEY has been deleted since:
  * Either keep all keys around or 
  * Restore the nkey directory in tandem

##### Names in JWT

> JWT allow to specify names. But Names do NOT represent an identity, they are only used to ease referencing of identities in our tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWTs allow to specify names. But Names do NOT represent an identity, they are only used to ease referencing of identities in our tooling.
```

The `nats-server` does not read them at all.
Because names do not relate to identity, they may collide. 
Therefore, when using `nsc`, these names need to be keep unique.

#### Setup an Operator

##### Create/Edit Operator - Operator Environment - All Deployment modes

Create operator with system account and system account user: `nsc add operator -n <operator-name> --sys` 
The command `nsc edit operator [flags]` can subsequently be used to modify the operator. 
For example if you are setting the account server url (used by `url-resolver` and `nats-resolver`), `nsc` does not require them being specified on subsequent commands.
`nsc edit operator --account-jwt-server-url "nats://localhost:4222"`

We always recommend using signing keys for an operator. Generate one for an operator (`-o`) and store it in the key directory (`--store`)
The output will display the public portion of the signing key, use that to assign it to the operator (`--sk O...`).
`nsc generate nkey -o --store` followed by `nsc edit operator --sk OB742OV63OE2U55Z7UZHUB2DUVGQHRA5QVR4RZU6NXNOKBKJGKF6WRTZ `.
To pick the operator signing key for account generation, provide the `-i` option when doing so. 

> The system account is the account under which `nats-server` offer system services and will be explained [later](#system-account).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system account is the account under which `nats-server` offer system services and will be explained in the [system-account](#system-account) section.
```

| `$SYS.REQ.SERVER.PING`                    | `$SYS.REQ.SERVER.PING.STATZ`                  |
| `$SYS.ACCOUNT.<account-id>.CLAIMS.UPDATE` | `$SYS.REQ.ACCOUNT.<account-id>.CLAIMS.LOOKUP` | 

#### Leaf Node Connections - Outgoing

It is important to understand that leaf nodes do not multiplex between accounts. 
Every account that you wish connect across a leaf node connection needs to be explicitly listed.
Thus, the system account is not automatically connected, even if both ends of a leaf node connection use the same system account.
For leaf nodes connecting into a cluster or super cluster, the system account needs to be explicitly connected as separate `remote` to the same url(s) used for the other account(s).
The system account user used by providing `credentials` can be heavily restricted and for example, only allow publishing on some subjects.
This holds also true when you don't use the system account yourself, but indirectly need it for nats based account resolver or centralized monitoring.

Examples in sub sections below assume that the cluster to connect into is in operator mode. 

##### Non Operator Mode

> Outgoing connection is not in Operator mode. Thus it's system account account differs. This shows how to connect them still.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The outgoing connection is not in Operator mode, thus the system account may differ from the user account. This example shows how to configure a user account and the system account in a leaf node.
```

          url: "nats-leaf://localhost:4222"
          credentials: "./your-account.creds"
        },
        {
          url: "nats-leaf://localhost:4222"
          account: "$SYS"
          credentials: "./system-account.creds"
        },
    ]
}
```

##### Operator Mode

Outgoing connection is in operator mode as well. 
This example assumes usage of the same operator and thus system account. 
However, using different operator would look almost identical. 
Only the credentials would be issued by accounts of the other operator.

```text
operator: ./trustedOperator.jwt
system_account: AAAXAUVSGK7TCRHFIRAS4SYXVJ76EWDMNXZM6ARFGXP7BASNDGLKU7A5
leafnodes {
    remotes = [ 
        { 
          url: "nats-leaf://localhost:4222"
          account: "ADKGAJU55CHYOIF5H432K2Z2ME3NPSJ5S3VY5Q42Q3OTYOCYRRG7WOWV"
          credentials: "./your-account.creds"
        },
        { 
          url: "nats-leaf://localhost:4222"
          account: "AAAXAUVSGK7TCRHFIRAS4SYXVJ76EWDMNXZM6ARFGXP7BASNDGLKU7A5"
          credentials: "./system-account.creds"
        },
    ]
}
```

### Connecting Accounts 

As shown in [what are accounts](#what-are-accounts), they can be connected via exports and imports.

> While in config this is straight forward, in jwt this becomes a bit more complicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While in configuration files this is straight forward, this becomes a bit more complicated when using JWTs
```

The resulting file can then be exchanged with the importer.

#### Imports

To add an import for a public export use `nsc add import --account <account name> --src-account <account identity public NKEY> --remote-subject <subject of export>`. To import a service provide the option `--service`.

To add an import for a private export use `nsc add import --account <account name> --token <token file or url>`
*If your nsc environment contains operator and account signing NKEY, `nsc add import -i` will generate token to embed on the fly*

##### Import Subjects

Between export/import/activation token there are many subjects in use. Their relationship is as follows:
* Import subject is identical to or a subset of the exported subject.
* An activation tokes subject is identical to or a subset of the exported subject.
* An activation tokens subject is also identical to or a subset of the import subject of the account it is embedded in.

##### Import Remapping

In order to be independent of subject names chosen by the exporter, importing allows to remap the imported subject.

> To do sos provide the option `--remote-subject <subject name>` to the import command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so provide the option `--remote-subject <subject name>` to the import command.
```

This example will change the subject name the importing account uses locally from the exporter picked subject `foo` to `bar`.

```text
> nsc add import --account test --src-account ACJ6G45BE7LLOFCVAZSZR3RY4XELXQ32BOQRI7KQMQLICXXXJRP4P45Q --remote-subject blo --local-subject bar
[ OK ] added stream import "blo"
>
```

##### Visualizing Export/Import Relationships

Nsc can generate diagrams of inter account relationships using: `nsc generate diagram component --output-file test.uml`
The generated file contains a [plantuml](https://plantuml.com/) component diagram of all accounts connected through their exports/imports. 
To turn the file into a png execute: `plantuml -tpng test.uml` 
If the diagram is cut off, increase available memory and image size limit with these options: `-Xmx2048m -DPLANTUML_LIMIT_SIZE=16384`

### Managing Keys

> Not every key used in ngs is equally important. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Identity keys are extremely important, so you may want to keep them safe and instead hand out more easily replaceable signing keys to operators.
```

> Their importance generally follows the chain of trust with operator keys being more important than account keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key importance generally follows the chain of trust with operator keys being more important than account keys.
```

Furthermore identity keys are more important than signing keys. 

> In the instances where regenerating a completely new identity key of either type is not an option, such as a) too many devices deployed b) too much institutional overhead c) ..., we suggest to backup identity nkeys, take them offline and use exchangeable signing keys instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are instances where regenerating a completely new identity key of either type is not a feasible option.  For example, you might have an extremely large deployment (IoT) where there is simply too much institutional overhead.  In this case we suggest to you securely backup identity keys offline and use exchangeable signing keys instead.
```

#### Reissue Identity NKEYs

If you can easily re-deploy all necessary keys and jwt, simply re-generating a new account/user (possibly operator) this will be the simplest solution.
The steps necessary are identical to the initial setup, which is why it would be preferred.
In fact, for user NKEYs and JWT, generating and distributing now ones to affected applications it is the best option.

Even if regeneration of an account or operator is not your first choice, it may be your method of last resort. 
Below sections outline the steps this would entail.

##### Operator

In order to reissue an operator identity NKEY use `nsc reissue operator`.
It will generate a new identity NKEY and use it to sign the operator.
`nsc` will also resign all accounts signed by the original identity NKEY. 
Accounts signed by operator signing keys will remain untouched.

The altered operator JWT will have to be deployed to all affected `nats-server` (one server at a time).
Once all `nats-server` have been restarted with the new operator, push the altered accounts.
Depending on your deployment mode you may have to distribute the operator JWT and altered account JWT to all other [`nsc`](#nsc) environments.

> This process will be a lot easier when operator signing keys where used throughout and no account will be re signed because of this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process will be a lot easier when operator signing keys where used throughout and no account will be re-signed because of this.
```

If they where not, you can convert the old identity NKEY into a signing key using `nsc reissue operator --convert-to-signing-key`.
On your own time - you can then remove the then signing NKEY using `nsc edit operator --rm-sk O.. ` and re deploy the operator jwt to all `nats-server`.

##### Account

Unlike with the operator, account identity NKEYs can not be changed as easily. 
User JWT explicitly reference the account identity NKEY such that the `nats-server` can download them via a resolver.
This complicates reissuing these kind of NKEYs, which is why we strongly suggest sticking to signing keys.

The basic approach is to:
1. generate a new account with similar settings - including signing NKEYs
2. resign all user that used to be signed by the old identity NKEY
3. push the account and
4. deploy the new user JWT to all programs running inside the account

When signing keys where used, the account identity NKEY would only be needed to self sign the account JWT exchange with an administrators/operators [`nsc`](#nsc) environment.

#### Revocations

> JWT for user, activations and accounts can be explicitly revoked. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWTs for user, activations and accounts can be explicitly revoked. 
```

> Furthermore can signing keys be removed, thus invalidating all JWT signed by the removed NKEY.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore can signing keys be removed, thus invalidating all JWTs signed by the removed NKEY.
```

To revoke all JWT for a user in a account issue `nsc revocations add-user --account <account name> --name <user name>`.
With the argument `--at` you can specify a time different than now.
Use `nsc revocations list-users --account <account name>` to inspect the result or `nsc revocations delete-user --account <account name> --name <user name>` to remove the revocation.

```text
> nsc revocations add-user --account SYS --name sys
[ OK ] revoked user "UCL5YXXUKCEO4HDTTYUOHDMHP4JJ6MGE3SVQBDWFZUGJUMUKE24DEUCU"
> nsc revocations list-users
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                 Revoked Users for test5                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| Public Key                                               | Revoke Credentials Before     |
+----------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| UAX7KQJJNL5NIRTSQSANKE3DNBHLLFUYKRXCD5QRKI75XBEHQOA4ZZGV | Wed, 10 Feb 2021 12:51:09 EST |
+----------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------+
```

> Please note that the revocation created only applies to JWT issued before the time listed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that the revocation created only applies to JWTs issued before the time listed. 
```

> User created or edited after, will be valid as they are outside of the revocation time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users created or updated after revocation will be valid as they are outside of the revocation time.
```

Please be also aware that adding a revocation will modify the account and therefore has to be pushed in order to publicize the revocation.

##### Accounts

Account identity NKEYS can not be revoked like user or activations. 
Instead lock out all users by setting the connection count to 0 using `nsc edit account --name <account name> --conns 0` and pushing the change using `nsc push --all`.

Alternatively you can also remove the account using `nsc delete account --name` and keep it from found by the account resolver. How to do this depends on your resolver type:
* [mem-resolver](https://docs.nats.io/nats-server/configuration/securing_nats/jwt/resolver#memory): Remove the JWT from the configuration field `resolver_preload` and restart all `nats-server`
* [url-resolver](https://docs.nats.io/nats-server/configuration/securing_nats/jwt/resolver#url-resolver): Manually delete the JWT from the `nats-account-server` store directory.
* `nats-resolver`: Prune removed accounts using: `nsc push --all --prune`. For this to work, the resolver has to have deletion enabled (`allow_delete: true`) and you need to be in possession of an operator signing key.

##### Signing keys

> Accounts/Activations/User can be revoked in bulk by removing the respective signing key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accounts, Activations, and Users can be revoked in bulk by removing the respective signing key.
```

> ##### Signing keys

Reviewer 2: soon we need to add a section on the `scoped` signing keys

Author: once we add them to nsc I'll add them here

#### Environment

`nsc` is a tool that uses the [JWT](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt) and [NKEY](https://github.com/nats-io/nkeys) libraries to create NKEYs (if asked to) and all types of JWT.
It then stores these artifacts in separate directories.

> It keeps track of the last operator/account used. Most commands provide 

Reviewer 3: I feel like the sentences "Most commands provide " is not complete

Author: fixed by removing

The main difference is that upon import, the account won't be re-signed.

#### Publicize an Account with Push - Operator Environment/Environment with push permissions - All Deployment Modes

How accounts can be publicized wholly depends on the resolver you are using:
* [mem-resolver](../nats-server/configuration/securing_nats/jwt/resolver#memory): The operator has to have all accounts imported and generate a new config.
* [url-resolver](../nats-server/configuration/securing_nats/jwt/resolver#url-resolver): `nsc push` will send an HTTP POST request to the hosting webserver or `nats-account-server`.
* `nats-resolver`: Every environment with a system account user that has permissions to send properly signed account JWT as requests to:
  * `$SYS.REQ.CLAIMS.UPDATE` can upload and update all accounts. Currently, `nsc push` uses this subject.
  * `$SYS.REQ.ACCOUNT.*.CLAIMS.UPDATE` can upload and update specific accounts.

`nsc generate config <resolver-type>` as a utility that generates the relevant NATS config. 
Where `<resolver-type>` can be `--mem-resolver` or `--nats-resolver` for the corresponding resolver.

> Typically the generated output is stored in a file that is then [included](link to doc) by the NATS config.

Reviewer 3: Need to add missing 'link to doc'

Author: fixed by including link to [include directive](https://docs.nats.io/nats-server/configuration#include-directive)

Every server within the same authentication domain needs to be configured with this configuration.

##### nats-resolver setup and push example - Operator Environment/Environment with push permissions - All Deployment Modes 

This is a quick demo of the nats-based resolver from operator creation to publishing a message.

> Please be aware that the ability to push only relates to permissions to dos so and does not require an account keys.

Reviewer 3: Wasn't sure what 'dos' was supposed to be in this sentence.

Author: fixed. should be do.
Please be aware that the ability to push is only relates to permissions to do so and does not require an account keys.

### Automated sign up services - JWT and NKEY libraries

`nsc` essentially uses the [NKEY](https://github.com/nats-io/nkeys) and [JWT](https://github.com/nats-io/jwt) libraries to generate operator/accounts/users.
You can use these libraries to generate the necessary artifacts as well.

> Generating the operator makes little sense, Accounts only if you need them dynamically, say for everyone of your customer. 

Reviewer 3: 'Generating the operator makes little sense, Accounts only if you need them dynamically, say for everyone of your customer. ' I'm not sure I understand this sentence. May need to reword?

Author: changed to:
Because there is only one, generating the operator this way makes little sense. 
Accounts only if you need them dynamically, say for everyone of your customer.
